# Website Monitoring Brief Record for 2022

Curated by Renske
([renske.gudde\@senckenberg.de](mailto:renske.gudde@senckenberg.de))

### Issue 17

Date: December 20th 2022

### News and articles

**Biodiversity** 1. The [UN Biodiversity Conference (COP
15)](https://www.unep.org/un-biodiversity-conference-cop-15) was held in
Montreal, Canada, from 7 - 19 December, where governments from around
the world came to agree on a new set of goals to guide global action
through 2030 to halt and reverse nature loss. The documents can be found
[here](https://www.cbd.int/conferences/2021-2022/cop-15/documents).

2.  A [report on biodiversity and artificial
    intelligence](https://gpai.ai/projects/responsible-ai/environment/biodiversity-and-AI-opportunities-recommendations-for-action.pdf)
    was developed in the context of the RAISE (Responsible AI Strategy
    for the Environment) project, covering a variety of subjects,
    including 'using AI to understand the drivers of biodiversity loss'
    and 'using AI to support policy action on biodiversity'.

3.  Four possible futures: [modelling the state of China's biodiversity
    by
    2035](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/four-possible-futures-modelling-the-state-of-chinas-biodiversity-by-2035).
    China is one of the most biodiverse countries in the world, but
    nearly half of all wild animal populations in the country are
    declining, and an estimated 11% of all plants are listed as
    threatened. The [China Biodiversity
    Outlook](https://environmental-partnership.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/China-Biodiversity-Outlook.pdf)
    used powerful land-use and biodiversity models and policy outcome
    scenarios to predict the state of the biodiversity in China by 2035.

4.  A new report, launched by UNEP with UNEP-WCMC [details the
    wide-ranging benefits of five inspirational European projects on
    restoration
    initiatives](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/bringing-nature-back-new-report-showcases-five-powerful-european-restoration-initiatives),
    with the aim of accelerating similar action across the continent and
    worldwide.

5.  UNEP-WCMC is conducting a [scoping study for 'global knowledge
    support services for biodiversity', to connect existing biodiversity
    knowledge hubs and other biodiversity-related data providers and
    tools to support national
    institutions](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/opportunity-to-shape-global-knowledge-support-systems-for-biodiversity) -
    and welcomes the views of countries and non-governmental
    organisations on the potential parameters of these support services.

**Climate** 1. Youth raise awareness to World Heritage and Climate
change through storyboards: [Results of the Patrimonito Storyboard
Competition 2022](https://whc.unesco.org/en/news/2502). The competition
received 710 storyboards from 47 State Parties.

2.  UNESCO has piloted an [online course on climate change adaptation
    and resilience in two natural World Heritage sites in
    Africa](https://whc.unesco.org/en/news/2505). The outcome reveals
    the vulnerability of sites to the unfolding climate variability and
    future impacts of climate change, but also offers options to reduce
    risks.

3.  A blog post with an [overview of the raw CMIP6 data and products
    derived from this
    data](https://oceanhealthindex.org/news/cmip_2_what_is_this/). The
    objective of the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project (CMIP) is to
    better understand climate change.

4.  The Pacific Institute is on a [mission to create and advance
    solutions to the world's most pressing water
    challenges](https://climatechampions.unfccc.int/water-resilience-coalition-mainstream-biodiversity-planning/)
    with a long-term strategic goal to catalyse the transformation to
    water resilience in the face of climate change by 2030.

5.  [Natural protected areas in Mexico: a strategic front for climate
    change mitigation and
    adaptation](https://www.globalforestwatch.org/blog/data-and-research/natural-protected-areas-mexico-climate-change-mitigation-adaptation/).
    In Mexico, tree cover loss is the main direct cause of degradation
    of terrestrial ecosystems and loss of biodiversity. Three areas from
    different protection caterogies were compared to visualize the role
    of natural protected areas.

**Oceans** 1. [Urgent collaboration between nations needed to save
marine life, from tropical reefs to deep sea
ecosystems](https://www.goosocean.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=441:urgent-collaboration-between-nations-needed-to-save-marine-life-from-tropical-reefs-to-deep-sea-ecosystems&catid=13&Itemid=125).

2.  [Breakthrough agreement provides safeguards to key tuna stocks in
    the Western Central
    Pacific](https://www.msc.org/media-centre/news-opinion/news/2022/12/07/breakthrough-agreement-provides-safeguards-to-key-tuna-stocks-in-the-western-central-pacific).
    The Western Central Pacific Fisheries Commission reaffirmed its
    commitment to put in place harvest strategies for all tuna species
    in the WCPO before stocks fall below sustainable levels.

3.  The [inequities of species declines: sharks versus tunas and
    billfish](https://www.msc.org/media-centre/news-opinion/news/2022/12/14/the-inequities-of-species-declines-sharks-versus-tunas-and-billfish).
    Monitoring and management actions by regional fisheries management
    organisations in the late 2000's has led to improvements in many
    populations of oceanic tunas and billfishes. However, ocean sharks,
    which are subject to bycatch in these same fisheries, have not seen
    any recoveries, and continue to decline.

4.  The [results from the 11th year of measuring the global Ocean Health
    Index have been
    published](https://oceanhealthindex.org/news/2022-scores/). The
    overall score was similar to previous years, with the highest scores
    for regions that tend to be uninhabited islands or islands with a
    small human population. Since 2012 some scores have increased, such
    as clean waters, but scores for iconic species, species condition
    and tourism and recreation have decreased.

5.  On December 16th, [the Surface Water Ocean Topography (SWOT)
    satellite mission was
    launched](https://marine.copernicus.eu/news/changing-game-sea-level-monitoring-swot-and-sl-tac),
    which will study nearly all of the water on the surface of the
    earth.

**New platforms and initiatives** 1. The [Global Biodata
Coalition](https://globalbiodata.org/) has named [GBIF a Global Core
Biodata
resource](https://www.gbif.org/news/6PHdgoyIF6RmI7u4VOouuD/gbif-named-a-global-core-biodata-resource),
highlighting its fundamental importance to research across the life
sciences.

2.  UNEP and UNEP/GRID-Geneva released a [new online
    platform](https://www.mapx.org/news/news/new-online-platform-to-support-ecosystem-based-disaster-risk-reduction/)
    dedicated to the ["Opportunity mapping"
    approach](https://app.mapx.org/static.html?language=en&views=MX-8VFPV-AT98G-CJT4Y),
    which aims at [combining global datasets on ecosystm distribution
    and hazard exposure to highlight areas where ecosystem restoration
    and/or protection can be used to protect the greatest number of
    people globally](https://opportunity-mapping.unepgrid.ch/).

3.  [Researchers, conservation experts and economists have announced the
    launch of a major new European project to transform how business and
    finance sectors integrate and make better decisions for
    nature](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/launch-of-eu-project-sustain-to-drive-integration-of-nature-in-business-strategies):
    the [Strenghtening Understanding and Strategies of Business to
    Assess and Integrate Nature (SUSTAIN)
    project](https://capitalscoalition.org/project/sustain-project/),
    led by the [Capitals Coalition](https://capitalscoalition.org/) and
    funded by the EU. It will run for 3 years with the ambition to
    facilitate transformative changes within the global economy to halt
    and reverse biodiversity loss.

4.  Environmental scientists have carried out the [first standardised
    global review of the potential risks and benefits to people and
    nautre from planned road and rail
    projects](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/global-study-weighs-up-environmental-risks-and-economic-benefits-of-major-transport-projects).
    The study reveals that holistic planning of major road and railway
    infrastructure can better protect nature, mitigate emissions and
    enhance economic benefit.

5.  The EOSC Observatory is a policy intelligence tool for monitoring
    policies, practices, and impacts related to EOSC and Open Science at
    national and institutional levels in Europe. The EOSC Observatory
    will help align policies and practices, identify gaps between
    policies and practices and provide actionable recommendations to
    policy makers on EOSC (Europen Open Science Cloud) and Open Science.

**News and updates about applications** 1. [Integration of MapX with
MANARA, the UN data and knowledge management
hub](https://www.mapx.org/news/news/integration-of-mapx-with-manara-the-un-data-and-knowledge-management-hub/).

2.  A new version of a mapping [app Mapeo for ICCAs has been developed
    to help Indigenous peoples and local communities map, monitor and
    support their conservation activities and land
    rights](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/new-mapping-app-to-support-indigenous-peoples-and-local-communities-to-showcase-their-conservation-efforts).
    The app helps users to create digital maps and gather images and
    information on key features within their territories and ares, which
    can be used for their advocacy purposes and fed into major global
    conservation databases for better visibility at the global level.

**FAIR and CARE principles** 1. [The EOSC Observatory is a policy
intelligence tool for monitoring policies, practices, and impacts
related to EOSC and Open
Science](https://www.openaire.eu/introducing-the-eosc-observatory) at
national and institutional levels in Europe. The EOSC Observatory will
help align policies and practices, identify gaps between policies and
practices and provide actionable recommendations to policy makers on
EOSC (Europen Open Science Cloud) and Open Science.

2.  A blog by a project lead at DataCite on the [gap between
    acknowledging and practicing
    FAIR](https://blog.datacite.org/mind-the-gap-what-to-expect-when-practicing-fair/).
    Despite the straightforward principles, practicing FAIR is not, as
    all aspects of FAIR require a lot of time and decisions.

3.  [DataCite streamlined the process for sharing metadata schema
    ideas](https://blog.datacite.org/updating-our-metadata-schema-suggestions-process/).

4.  [A blog
    post](https://coffeehouse.dataone.org/2022/12/06/a-summary-of-research-data-documentation-methods/)
    on [various research data documentation methods and when to use
    them](https://authors.library.caltech.edu/117936/).

### Agenda for upcoming conferences, webinars and events

19 January 2023, 19:00 - 20:30 CET: C4OS in the US: From fair use to
statutory licensing (online workshop)

*24 - 31 January 2023*: [ARSET - Connecting citizen science with remote
sensing](https://appliedsciences.nasa.gov/join-mission/training/english/arset-connecting-citizen-science-remote-sensing)

9 February 2023, 11:30 - 16:30 CET: Open Access C4OS: a global
perspective, an in person meeting at Onassis Stegi (Liechtenstein). More
information on registration and the agenda follow in early January 2023.

*22 - 24 February 2023*: Virtual workshop by EuropaBON on Essential
Biodiversity Variable workflows. The agenda and registration form will
be available in January 2023.

*15 - 17 May 2023*: [Course on Integrated ecosystem services assessment
to value and capture the benefits of landscape restoration, nature
conservation and sustainable land
management](https://www.es-partnership.org/esp-asia-ro-organises-training-on-integrated-ecosystem-services-assessment/#more-15784)
in Tapei, Taiwan.

*31 July - 4 August, 2023*: [FSCI 2023 Call for Courses (online):
Enhancing the global impact of Open
Scholarship](https://force11.org/fsci/2023/)

### Issue 16

Date: December 6th 2022

### News and articles

**Biodiversity** 1. [Financing reforestation and nature-based solutions
at
scale](https://climatechampions.unfccc.int/from-saplings-to-forests-from-challenge-to-opportunity-financing-reforestation-and-nbs-at-scale/).

2.  [What to expect at this year's UN biodiversity conference:
    COP15](https://climatechampions.unfccc.int/what-to-expect-at-this-years-un-biodiversity-conference-cop15/):
    the importance and key issues of this year's conference. [Local
    Biodiversity Outlooks presents the perspectives and experiences of
    indigenous peoples and local communities on the current
    socio-ecological crisis and outlines why they must play a central
    role in the development and implementation of global biodiversity
    policy](https://localbiodiversityoutlooks.net/local-biodiversity-outlooks-at-the-cbd-cop15/).

3.  The [CITES CoP will bring a record number of species to be regulated
    by
    CITES](https://cites.org/eng/news/record-number-of-species-to-be-regulated-by-cites-after-cop19),
    after adopting 46 proposals of the 52 put forward.

4.  [What's next for biodiversity data in the finance
    sector](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/whats-next-for-biodiversity-data-in-the-finance-sector).
    Recently, financial institutions increasingly started to understand
    the urgent need to protect and restore biodiversity. Now they need
    data and tools to rapidly turn conversations into effective changes.

**Climate** 1. ["What is inefficient, insufficient and unfair?" and the
'1% for 1.5°C'
proposal](https://climatechampions.unfccc.int/what-is-inefficient-insufficient-and-unfair/):
Mahmoud Moohieldin's speech at the closing event of the COP27.

2.  In recent years, there has been made progress in addressing youth
    unemployment, poverty and hunger, but there is been limited
    investment in youth empowerment. However, empowered youth influence
    a sustainable future: [young people must be allowed to help create
    the world they will have to live
    in](https://climatechampions.unfccc.int/young-people-must-be-allowed-to-help-create-the-world-they-will-have-to-live-in/).

3.  [Clean cooking (using cleaner fues and energy-efficient equipment)
    named as critical breakthrough to halve emissions by
    2030](https://climatechampions.unfccc.int/clean-cooking-named-as-a-critical-breakthrough-to-halve-emissions-by-2030/).
    The [Clean Cooking Systems
    Strategy](https://cleancooking.org/reports-and-tools/clean-cooking-systems-strategy-horizon-1-update/)
    identified high-priority funding and financing opportunities to
    rapidly unlock a first wave of capital.

4.  The [NICFI Satellite Data Program continues to use high-resolution
    satellite imagery to help fight deforestation and combat climate
    change](https://www.planet.com/pulse/data-program-continues-to-use-high-resolution-satellite-imagery-to-help-fight-deforestation-and-combat-climate-change/).

**Oceans** 1. [Highlights from COP27: Ocean
observations](https://www.goosocean.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=439:highlights-from-cop27-ocean-observations-an-essential-pillar-for-the-climate-observing-system&catid=13&Itemid=125) -
an essential pillar for the climate observing system. The outcomes take
the [global ocean community forward on collective action to tackle
climate
change](https://www.oceandecade.org/news/cop27-outcomes-take-the-global-ocean-community-forward-on-collective-action-to-tackle-climate-change/).

2.  A landmark [agreement to adopt state-of-the-art conservation
    measures to safeguard stocks of Atlantic bluefin
    tuna](https://www.msc.org/media-centre/news-opinion/news/2022/11/22/seminal-moment-atlantic-bluefin-tuna-harvest-control-rules)
    has been reached by regional fisheries management organisation the
    [International Commission for Conservation of Atlantic
    Tuna](https://www.iccat.int/en/).

3.  [Restoring, preserving, and proteting the integrity and resilience
    of our ocean for future
    generations](https://climatechampions.unfccc.int/marine-protected-areas-restoring-preserving-and-protecting-the-integrity-and-resilience-of-our-ocean-for-future-generations/).
    The ocean has absorved over 90% of the excess heat from greenhouse
    gas emissions, and Marine Protected Areas can build ecological
    resilience by lessening the impact of non-climate change stressors
    such as water pollution, overfishing and habitat destruction.

4.  The Copernicus Marine Service catalogue, now called [the Marine
    DataStore, provides better usability to its users: it integrates a
    user inferface that allows users to search all Ocean Monitoring
    Indicators as well as the marine data
    products](https://marine.copernicus.eu/news/myocean-viewer-and-catalogue-ux-update),
    with an entry point directly in the MyOcean viewer. The Marine
    DataStore now also offers [temperature data from the One Ocean
    Expedition](https://marine.copernicus.eu/news/temperature-data-one-ocean-expedition-available-copernicus-marine-service-catalogue).

5.  The [11th International Aquarium Congress strengthens the role of
    aquariums, museums and zoos in the global Ocean Decade
    movement](https://www.oceandecade.org/news/iac-2022-strengthens-the-role-of-aquariums-museums-and-zoos-in-the-global-ocean-decade-movement/),
    after discussing priorities to take action as part of the UN Decade
    of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development.

**News and updates about applications** 1. [MapTilet customers can now
request sub-meter satellite
imagery](https://www.maptiler.com/news/2022/12/satellite-imagery-on-demand/),
or raw GeoTIFFs, for specific areas of interest anywhere on the earth,
making it possible to monitor developing situations, from wildfires to
infrastructure.

2.  A [Wiki has been released to help users make the most of all MapX
    features](https://www.mapx.org/news/news/new-mapx-wiki/), including
    about 60 sections to learn and master MapX concepts and tools.

**FAIR and CARE principles** 1. [Episciences, an overlay journal
platform to host and disseminate diamond open access publications from
all disciplines, integrates the Open Science Lens page
enhancer](https://www.openaire.eu/episciences-integrates-open-science-lens-page-enhancer):
a way to [easily locate and explore information of relevance to Open
Science](https://www.openaire.eu/open-science-in-a-click-through-the-openaire-open-science-lens).

2.  [GoTriple, a new collaboration between the OpenAIRE and TRIPLE
    teams, is a platform to serve as a single access point for all
    social sciences and humanities relevant
    stakeholders](https://www.openaire.eu/fostering-social-sciences-and-humanities-research)
    (researchers, universities, libraries, citizens and service
    providers) to find and reuse resources easily.

**Recordings of previously held webinars and online/hybrid
conferences** 1. [The recording of the event 'Supporting EU's
biodiversity targets by bridging the science-policy
divide'](https://ebcd.org/events/hybrid-event-supporting-eus-biodiversity-targets-by-bridging-the-science-policy-divide/)
that took place on the 15th of November 2022, is available.

### Agenda for upcoming conferences, webinars and events

*9 December 2022*, 00.15 CET): [Building capacity to deliver open
biodiversity data for research and decisions in support of the Global
Biodiversity
Framework](https://www.gbif.org/event/2v70LU056qOmOuPpsZxaRE/cop-15-side-event-building-capacity-to-deliver-open-biodiversity-data-for-research-and-decisions-in-support-of-the-global-biodiversity-framework),
a GBIF-hosted side event at COP-15 in Montréal, Canada

[Copyright for Open Science (C4OS)
series](https://www.openaire.eu/copyright-for-open-science-c4os-series):
with 3 workshops, on 15 December 2022, 19 January 2023 and 9 February
2023:

*15 December 2022*, 17:00 - 18:30 CET: [The European Context of
copyright reform for Open
Science](https://zoom.us/meeting/register/tJcldeGuqTotE9HtS5zgLl3GjrKQnSfAtC_o)
(online workshop)

*19 January 2023*, 19:00 - 20:30 CET: [C4OS in the US: From fair use to
statutory
licensing](https://zoom.us/meeting/register/tJItdOysrToiG9HLaYuJWfayiFltyNwxtE17)
(online workshop)

*24-31 January 2023*: An [online training program by NASA on using
remote sensing to monitor the
earth](https://appliedsciences.nasa.gov/join-mission/training/english/arset-connecting-citizen-science-remote-sensing).

*9 February 2023*, 11:30 - 16:30 CET: [Open Access C4OS: a global
perspective](https://www.openaire.eu/copyright-for-open-science-c4os-series),
an in person meeting at Onassis Stegi (Liechtenstein). More information
on registration and the agenda follow in early January 2023.

### Issue 15

Date: November 23th 2022

### News and articles

**Biodiversity** 1. [New guidance to help maximise climate change
mitigation through the restoration of natural
areas](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/new-guidance-to-help-maximise-climate-change-mitigation-through-the-restoration-of-natural-areas).

2.  [New assessment of global wildlife trade trends sets benchmark for
    future
    monitoring](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/new-assessment-of-global-wildlife-trade-trends-sets-benchmark-for-future-monitoring)

3.  [The CITES secretatiat has published the first-ever World Wildlife
    Trade
    Report](https://cites.org/sites/default/files/documents/E-CoP19-Inf-24.pdf),
    giving [insights and analysis into the global trade in animals and
    plants that are regulated under this
    treaty](https://cites.org/eng/news/first-world-wildlife-trade-report).
    It is the first report of its kind that is designed to help inform
    conservation policies and pratices for governments, organisations,
    businesses and trade bodies as well as the media and the general
    public.

4.  [Planet and Justdiggit enable nature-based solutions to regreen the
    land](https://www.planet.com/pulse/seeing-african-restoration-from-space-planet-and-justdiggit-enable-nature-based-solutions-to-regreen-the-land/);
    previously dry and parched land is now sprouting green grasses and
    young trees, as can see on satellite images. Rainwater is used to
    revive the land and to support restored and thriving African native
    ecosystems.

**Climate** 1. [Action must ramp up massively if the SDGs are to be
realized and climate catastrophe
averted](https://sdg-action.org/ideas-into-action/). In the aftermath of
the pandemic, it's the second year in a row without any progress being
made on the Sustainable Development Goals, and some countries are even
witnessing a regression on achievement. [Commitments for forests are far
of from what is
needed](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/new-research-shows-commitments-for-forests-are-nowhere-near-what-is-needed-to-reach-paris-agreement-ambition)
to reach the Paris Agreement ambition.

2.  Research shows how [new global targets to protect and restore nature
    can help tackle climate
    change](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/research-shows-how-new-global-targets-to-protect-and-restore-nature-can-help-tackle-climate-change).
    By calculating the CO2 emissions countries could save if they
    conserve and restore ecosystems on land, calls for coordinated
    action on climate change and nature loss have been strenghtened.

3.  Researchers have conducted [initial studies scoping the potential
    for some of the most important zoonotic diseases to make the jump
    into humans as a result of the legal and illegal wildlife
    trade](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/study-scopes-potential-of-global-wildlife-trade-to-harbour-zoonotic-disease).

4.  [People and planet together: why women and girls are at the heart of
    climate
    action](https://blogs.worldbank.org/climatechange/people-and-planet-together-why-women-and-girls-are-heart-climate-action),
    a blog by the World Bank.

**Oceans** 1. [Indonesia is making progress in sustainable
fishing](https://www.msc.org/media-centre/news-opinion/news/2022/11/15/indonesia-government-moves-closer-to-sustainable-blue-economy-commitments)
with three tuna fisheries MSC certified and multiple fishery improvement
projects underway. However, [the long-term sustainability of the world's
most important tuna stocks (in the Western Central Pacific Ocean) will
be at
risk](https://www.msc.org/media-centre/news-opinion/news/2022/11/21/worlds-most-important-tuna-stocks-long-term-sustainability-risk)
if governments fail to implement protective management measures. 2. [A
report on the study of the effects of climate change on the
Mediterranean
Ocean](https://www.goosocean.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=434:when-a-cruise-through-the-mediterranean-sea-is-not-exactly-a-holiday&catid=13&Itemid=125).

3.  Marine litter in the Mediterranean Sea: [using observation
    satellites to monitor plastic in the
    ocean](https://marine.copernicus.eu/news/touring-europes-coasts-marine-litter-mediterranean).

4.  New research [displays intentionally disabling of automatic
    identification system
    devices](https://globalfishingwatch.org/press-release/analysis-shows-vessels-identification-switched-off/)
    to provide insights into illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing
    activity.

5.  [UNESCO finds that some iconic World Heritage glaciers will
    disappear by
    2050](https://www.oceandecade.org/news/unesco-finds-that-some-iconic-world-heritage-glaciers-will-disappear-by-2050/)

6.  [Scientists warn that it's make-or-break time for Africa's
    oceans](https://www.oceandecade.org/news/scientists-warn-that-its-make-or-break-time-for-africas-oceans/)

**New platforms and initiatives** 1. The international Consortium on
Combating Wildlife Crime launched its [Vision 2030 which will support
efforts to combat wildlife
crime](https://cites.org/eng/news/towards-a-world-free-of-wildlife-crime-iccwc-launches-vision-2030).

2.  Quadripartite launches a [new platform to tackle antimicrobial
    resistance threat to human and animal health and
    ecosystems](https://www.who.int/news/item/18-11-2022-quadripartite-launches-a-new-platform-to-tackle-antimicrobial-resistance-threat-to-human-and-animal-health-and-ecosystems)

**News and updates about applications** 1. [Vital wildlife trade portal
species+](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/vital-wildlife-trade-portal-species-now-available-as-a-mobile-app)
now available as mobile app.

**Journals and publishing** 1. [A new book titled 'The Predator
Effect'](https://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2022/11/21/just-how-important-is-the-problem-of-predatory-publishing/)
by Simon Linacre urges the scholarly communications industry to focus on
the real world negative impacts that can be caused by predatory
journals: when journals pretend to be scholarly and peer reviewed, but
instead present articles that have not been validated and may contain
disinformation.

**FAIR and CARE principles** 1. Metadata is at the heart of DOIs and
open scholarly infrastructure. Currently, the metadata schema of
DataCite contains 6 required properties (DOI, creator, title,
publication year, publisher and resource type) and 14 optional
properties, making the schema flexible and easily usable. However,
sharing rich metadata improve discoverability. [DataCite reports about
three different projects to improve
metadata](https://blog.datacite.org/towards-richer-metadata-perspectives-from-three-datacite-projects/);
FAIR workflows, ISGN ID and NFDI4Ing.

2.  FAIR is everytwhere: [a proof of concept study on implementing FAIR
    workflows](https://blog.datacite.org/fair-is-everywhere/).

**Recordings of previously held webinars and online/hybrid
conferences** 1. [Data Use Club Practical Sessions: Data
Quality](https://www.gbif.org/event/2CAcHI4oxVK5ZgMnFszNUD/data-use-club-practical-sessions-data-quality).
A recorded session from November 16th by GBIF, on the frequent cases of
data quality issues that users should be aware of in order to
effectively use their data.

2.  The third session of the [WWF seminars on artificial intelligence
    and conservation: Ethics](https://vimeo.com/771752163).

**Agenda for upcoming conferences, webinars and events**

*30 November 2022*: [Pre-COP15 webinar: make nature
count](https://www.es-partnership.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Pre-COP-webinar-MAKE-NATURE-COUNT-2.pdf),
14:00-15:30 CET.

*24-31 January 2023*: An [online training on using remote sensing to
monitor the
earth](https://appliedsciences.nasa.gov/join-mission/training/english/arset-connecting-citizen-science-remote-sensing).

### Issue 14

Date: November 4th 2022

### News and articles

**Biodiversity**

1.  A new [WWF Living Planet
    Report](https://wwfint.awsassets.panda.org/downloads/embargo_13_10_2022_lpr_2022_full_report_single_page_1.pdf)
    reveals a devastating [69% drop in wildlife
    populations](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/new-report-reveals-devastating-69-drop-in-wildlife-populations).

2.  As the [CITES Tree Species Programme draws to a
    close](https://cites.org/eng/news/a-celebration-of-the-cites-tree-species-project),
    there is hope for a better future for some of the world's threatened
    tree species and a recognition that local communities play a
    critical role in the future conservation of trees.

3.  7 of the southern African countries reaffirm [commitment to
    combatting elephant
    poaching](https://cites.org/eng/news/southern-africa-reaffirms-commitment-to-combatting-elephant-poaching)
    ahead of CITES CoP 19.

4.  [Study praises community-led environmental monitoring
    efforts](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/study-praises-community-led-environmental-monitoring-efforts-and-calls-for-state-level-funding-and-protections)
    by local community members, such as environmentally interested
    fisherman, hunters, farmers, forest product collectors and other
    resource users, and calls for state level funding and protections.

5.  During the 8th Meeting of the Parties, [16 resolutions and
    guidelines aimed to improve the conservation status of 255 migratory
    waterbirds](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/nations-flock-together-to-commit-to-strengthening-flyway-conservation-for-migratory-waterbirds)
    were successfully adopted.

6.  The [IUCN Africa protected areas
    congress](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/the-africa-protected-areas-congress-a-commitment-to-african-led-conservation%E2%80%AF)
    took place in Rwanda. A broad and powerful range of stakeholders
    (from Indigenous and community leaders, governments,
    non-governmental organizations, citizens and protected area
    managers) discussed the role of protected areas in conserving
    nature, safeguarding Africa's iconic wildlife, delivering vital
    life-supporting ecosystem services and promoting sustainable
    development while conserving Africa's cultural heritage and
    traditions.

7.  Planet's Nonprofit Program aims to [reduce the barriers that
    nonprofits
    face](https://www.planet.com/pulse/moving-from-awareness-to-action-with-the-nonprofit-program/)
    (tight budgets and having to rely on publicly available data that is
    often outdated and insufficient) by providing a customized offering
    of its imagery and services.

**Climate**

1.  A [new report from UN Climate
    Change](https://climatechampions.unfccc.int/climate-plans-remain-insufficient-more-ambitious-action-needed-now/)
    shows that countries are bending the curve of global greenhouse gas
    emissions downward, but underlines that these efforts remain
    insufficient to limit global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius
    by the end of the century.

2.  [A warmer world: are we
    ready?](https://sdg-action.org/a-warmer-world-are-we-ready%ef%bf%bc/)
    Even the most optimistic predictions show a significantly warmer
    planet by 2100. Rather than focussing on quick fixes, as many
    current plans do, countries must pursue climate-resilient
    development strategies that address the systematic nature of the
    climate crisis.

3.  [The world cannot
    wait](https://sdg-action.org/the-world-cannot-wait%ef%bf%bc/) --
    About the climate action needed for a sustainable future; 5
    priorities that should guide climate action.

4.  New climate movements, such as the school strikes inspired by Greta
    Thunberg and Extinction Rebellion, call to listen to science, but
    what do they actually mean by 'science'? Telling the truth, uniting
    behind the science -- [Climate coalitions and science's place in
    society](https://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2022/10/13/telling-the-truth-uniting-behind-the-science-climate-coalitions-and-sciences-place-in-society/).

5.  [Four key takeaways from meetings with an invigorated climate and
    sustainable development
    agenda](https://www.planet.com/pulse/from-climateweek-to-cop27-cop15-and-beyond-notes-on-the-road-ahead/)
    from the ClimateWeek, COP27 and COP15 meetings.

**Oceans**

1.  UNESCO and its Oceanographic Commission are all about [pooling
    knowledge and resources to learn more about our
    oceans](https://www.oceandecade.org/news/saving-the-ocean-one-bottle-at-a-time-with-unesco/),
    aiming to deliver very real, concrete solutions to the ocean's major
    threats, from pollution to overfishing and so on.

2.  The first half of 2022 saw a number of key events and breakthroughs,
    from the One Ocean Summit in France, to the commitment of UNEP
    Member States to negotiate an international legally binding
    agreement to end plastic pollution and the 2022 UN Ocean Conference.
    [Continuing the ocean 'super year': what's next for the ocean
    decade?](https://www.oceandecade.org/news/continuing-the-ocean-super-year-whats-next-for-the-ocean-decade/)

**New platforms and initiatives**

1.  [New EU project SELINA launched](https://project-selina.eu/):
    [Biodiversity and ecosystem services experts from 31 countries met
    in
    Hannover](https://www.es-partnership.org/new-eu-project-selina-launched-biodiversity-and-ecosystem-services-experts-from-31-countries-met-in-hannover/).

2.  [The first global knowledge platform dedicated to climate and
    health](https://climahealth.info/) was
    [launched](https://www.who.int/news/item/31-10-2022-who-and-wmo-launch-a-new-knowledge-platform-for-climate-and-health)
    by the Joint Office of the World Health Organization and World
    Meteorological Organization with support from the Wellcome Trust.

3.  The [One Health Joint Plan of
    Action](https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789240059139) was
    [launched](https://www.who.int/news/item/17-10-2022-one-health-joint-plan-of-action-launched-to-address-health-threats-to-humans--animals--plants-and-environment)
    to address health threats to humans, animals, plants and
    environment.

4.  A [regional environmental platform to support periodic
    reporting](https://wesr-cartagena.unepgrid.ch/) by the Cartagena
    Convention Secretariat, focussing on the wider Caribbean region, has
    been
    [launched](https://www.mapx.org/news/articles/new-regional-environmental-platform-to-support-periodic-reporting-by-the-cartagena-convention-secretariat/),
    supporting reports on marine pollution and marine biodiversity.

5.  REV Ocean, Nekton and OCEEF team up to [document deep sea reefs in
    the Maldives](https://www.revocean.org/aurelia_seatrials/).

6.  The Ocean Visions - UN Decade Collaborative Center for Ocean-Climate
    Solutions, a new international center, will support [collaborative
    solutions to improve health of world's
    oceans](https://www.oceandecade.org/news/new-international-center-will-support-collaborative-solutions-to-improve-health-of-worlds-oceans/).

7.  Global Fishing Watch welcomes partnership with Papua New Guinea to
    [share vessel tracking
    data](https://globalfishingwatch.org/press-release/papua-new-guinea-to-share-vessel-data/).

8.  A [short overview of the major scientific advances for
    nature](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/showcasing-unep-wcmcs-major-scientific-advances-for-nature)
    by UNEP-WCMC.

9.  NCEAS and the NOAA RESTORE Science Program launched their newest
    synthesis science program: [the Gulf Ecosystem
    Initiative](https://www.nceas.ucsb.edu/news/familiar-model-uncharted-water-introducing-gulf-ecosystem-initiative),
    which will fund working groups and postdoctoral research around
    areas of climate change, fisheries, and natural resource management
    actions in the Gulf of Mexico.

10. The United Nations have released the [new Global Ocean Observing
    System Report
    Card](https://www.goosocean.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=420:state-of-the-global-ocean-observing-system-in-2022&catid=13&Itemid=125):
    a high-level annual report providing a deep inside on the state,
    capacity and value of our GOOS.

11. A reflection on the UN recognition of [the human right to a clean,
    healthy and sustainable environment - a new pathway for nature and
    people](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/un-recognition-of-the-human-right-to-a-clean-healthy-and-sustainable-environment-a-new-pathway-for-nature-and-people).

**Open access week (24-31 October 2022)**

1.  The IUCN organized 5 webinars related to open science and
    publishing. Each webinar was recorded, as soon as the links to the
    presentations are available, they will be shared in an upcoming
    monitoring brief.

2.  [EUTOPIA Open Research Portal](https://eutopia.openaire.eu/) was
    [launched](https://www.openaire.eu/eutopia-open-research-portal-goes-live)
    last week as part of the Open Access Week. EUTOPIA is an alliance of
    10 universities, aiming to prepare European youth for the local and
    global challenges of the future; by focussing on sustainability,
    inclusion, external collaboration and international cooperation.

3.  [DOAJ and OpenAIRE announced a new
    partnership](https://www.openaire.eu/making-research-more-accessible)
    which will promote collaboration and discovery between the two
    parties by sharing metadata and enriching it.

4.  [The CTO of OpenAIRE is co-leading an international
    team](https://www.openaire.eu/developing-core-scholarly-infrastructure)
    that has been awarded a grant from the Mellon Foundation to develop
    core scholarly infrastructure for the community governed sharing of
    quality, interoperable, open-access book usage data.

5.  An integrated national data ecosystem supports the social contract
    for data by allowing [trustworthy data sharing and the use (and
    reuse) of a country's data
    resources](https://blogs.worldbank.org/digital-development/integrated-national-data-ecosystems-next-stage-digital-transformation)
    at the national, sub-national or sectoral levels, introducing the
    next stage of digital transformation.

6.  UGSS and NOAA have partnered through the Ocean Biodiversity
    Information System - USA and National Centers for [Environmental
    Information to streamline ocean data
    collection](https://www.usgs.gov/news/science-snippet/marine-biodiversity-data-how-usgs-and-noaa-are-collaborating-make-data-more),
    making data more accessible now and into the future.

**News and updates about applications**

1.  A walk-through an R script written to scrape download links from a
    webpage, download the pdfs found at those links, and then extract
    data from the downloaded documents, using [RVEST and
    TABULIZER](https://oceanhealthindex.org/news/scraping_webpages_and_pdfs/).

2.  The [new OpenAIRE
    Monitor](https://www.openaire.eu/the-new-openaire-monitor-brand-new-dashboards-and-features)
    is an on-demand service built upon the OpenAIRE Research Graph with
    the mission to fulfill the needs: brand new dashboards and features.

3.  With
    [MapX](https://app.mapx.org/?project=MX-YBJ-YYF-08R-UUR-QW6&language=en)
    it is now possible to [attribute tables directly from the MapX
    interface](https://www.mapx.org/news/news/new-module-for-editing-attribute-tables-from-mapx/),
    for example when one wants to add indicator values for a new year.

4.  [MapTiler](https://www.maptiler.com/satellite/) Aerial updates 2022:
    [updated aerial images covering entire
    countries](https://www.maptiler.com/news/2022/09/aerial-maps-updated-across-europe-and-new-zealand/)
    such as Italy, Spain, Portugal and New Zealand with pixel
    resolutions up to 4 cm have been added to the MapTiler Cloud and
    Data services.

5.  [Digging up the oceans'
    past](https://www.zooniverse.org/projects/geosar/digging-up-the-oceans-past):
    An [interactive project concerning transcribing data and
    metadata](https://www.obis.org/2022/09/07/zooniverse/) of a chosen
    historical marine survey from expedition logbooks, old book
    collections and papers from institutional libraries.

**Indices and indicators**

1.  The Ocean Health Index has decided to update the [habitat subgoal of
    biodiversity](https://oceanhealthindex.org/news/tidal_flats/) by
    adding tidal flat ecosystems, such as sand, rock or mud flats, to
    complement the existing habitat types.

2.  Blue ecosystems, such as coral reefs, seagrasses, and mangroves, are
    threatened by global climate change. The Allen Coral Atlas launched
    the [world's first reef monitoring
    capability](https://allencoralatlas.org/blog/atlas-launches-reef-threats/).

3.  [Copernicus Marine Service and Biodiversity
    Monitoring](https://marine.copernicus.eu/news/copernicus-marine-service-and-biodiversity-monitoring)
    provides the most relevant variables needed to monitor marine
    ecosystems and their health (e.g. salinity, temperature, turbidity)
    in different formats as key inputs to diverse applications developed
    for directives on ocean health and its biodiversity.

**FAIR and CARE principles** 1. Local Contexts is an organization
dedicated to supporting Indigenous communities to manage their
intellectual and cultural property, cultural heritage, environmental
data and genetic resources within digital environments. Now they have
developed [Tranditional Knowledge and Biocultural
Labels](https://blog.datacite.org/grounding-indigenous-rights-in-datacite-metadata/)
with Indigenous communities as a tool for Indigenous communities to
express already existing community rules, governance and protocols for
using, sharing and circulating knowledge and data.

**Recordings of previously held webinars and online/hybrid conferences**

1.  [Webinar 1 on artificial intelligence and conservation by WWF: Where
    we are now](https://vimeo.com/759226004) (October 11th 2022). An one
    hour overview of how artificial intelligence has been used in
    conservation practices, such as the implementation in predictive
    models (where historical data or samples are used to train a model
    that can accurately predict the label of unseen data) and
    decision-making/optimization methods (deciding which actions to
    take, and specifying the constraints and objectives to design a
    method for effective resource allocation).

2.  [Webinar 2 on artificial intelligence and conservation by WWF:
    Prediction](https://vimeo.com/765823745) (October 31st 2022). An one
    hour overview of how artificial intelligence is being used in
    prediction models. For example: how to learn poacher behaviour from
    real-world data, which is based on patrol effort features and
    geospatial features (such as animal density, distance to town and
    nearest road).

3.  The online (hybrid) sessions of the [FAIR Convergens Symposium
    hosted by CODATA](https://vimeo.com/user91439529), 24 - 26 October
    2022: 'Data policy in times of crisis', 'FAIR Implementation
    Profiles: what have we learnt?' and 'Catalizing Convergence in
    ENVRI-FAIR using FIPs'. These sessions include discussions about the
    difficulties to make data FAIR, the questions whether all data needs
    to be FAIR, or if FAIR metadata is enough, and the suggestion that
    instead of data sharing, data visiting should be encouraged.

**Agenda for upcoming conferences, webinars and events**

*9 November 2022*, 15:00 - 17:00 CET: [Exploring camera-trap
data](https://www.gbif.org/event/f68927-b5c1-4ac8-a4ac-7d47645/exploring-camera-trap-data),
zoom webinar, organized by GBIF

*14 - 25 November 2022*: [Conference of the Parties 19 or the World
Wildlife
Conference](https://cites.org/eng/news/whats-coming-to-the-world-wildlife-conference)
in Panama City. The [final 52
proposals](https://cites.org/sites/default/files/eng/cop/19/doc/E-CoP19-89-01.pdf)
will be discussed, and all decisions will be streamed live via their
[YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/CITES)

*16 November 2022*, 17:00 - 18:00 CET time: [Webinar 3 on artificial
intelligence and conservation by
WWF](https://wwfus.zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_NUpYzmHVRiuM7Hpt_8HcZw),
part 3: Ethics

*15 December 2022*: [Extended
deadline](https://www.gbif.org/news/2Z7fge80XcPXfdas6iysh7/call-for-data-papers-to-fill-gaps-on-freshwater-species)
for data papers to fill gaps on freshwater species. GBIF will sponsor
the article processing charges for the first sixteen manuscripts
accepted by the Journal of Limnology to describe datasets with clear
research relevance for species inhabiting or dependent on freshwater
habitats, more than 5000 presence records new to GBIF.org, high-quality
data and metadata and published under an open CC0 designation or CC BY
4.0 license.

*20-21 March 2023*: [International Ocean Data
Conference](https://oceandataconference.org/) - II, at the UNESCO
headquarters in Paris, France (hybrid event)

### Issue 13

Date: July 25th 2022

1.  Global Fishing Watch's APIs are now available to all registered
    users announced
    [here](https://globalfishingwatch.org/data/our-apis-portal/). They
    also created a new R Package,
    ["gfwr"](https://github.com/GlobalFishingWatch/gfwr) to access the
    data

2.  GOOS and OBIS have developed a new portal called the [GOOS BioEco
    Portal](https://bioeco.goosocean.org/), which is an online platform
    providing information on sustained ocean observing programs
    explained
    [here](https://www.goosocean.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=413:goos-bioeco-portal-the-place-to-go-for-information-on-biological-and-ecosystem-observations&catid=13&Itemid=125).
    Registered users can upload, edit, and manage any of their
    contribution's metadata as well

3.  Planet now offers three variables: soil water content, land surface
    temperature, and vegetation biomass at 100m or less resolution
    introduced
    [here](https://www.planet.com/pulse/introducing-planetary-variables-soil-water-content-land-surface-temperature-and-vegetation-biomass/)

4.  The key messages and results regarding Horizon Europe Open Science
    requirements for publications can be found
    [here](https://www.openaire.eu/horizon-europe-os-requirements-in-practice-webinar-results-key-messages)

5.  Arset is offering an online three-day training on evaluating
    ecosystem services with remote sensing. More information is
    available
    [here](https://appliedsciences.nasa.gov/join-mission/training/english/arset-evaluating-ecosystem-services-remote-sensing)

6.  OpenAire has released a new [catalogue of their
    services](http://catalogue.openaire.eu/home) that presents an
    intuitive and effective way to find information and services with
    minimal effort announced
    [here](https://www.openaire.eu/introducing-the-new-openaire-catalogue-of-services)

7.  The Copernicus Marine Service launched a significant update to its
    satellite ocean color products and now provides an hourly global
    wind satellite product explained
    [here](https://marine.copernicus.eu/news/july-2022-product-release-clearer-and-reorganised-offer)

8.  OBIS is starting a new [eDNA
    initiative](https://www.obis.org/2022/07/13/eDNA_expeditions/) that
    aims to collect eDNA from 25 marine World Heritage sites and make
    the resulting data openly accessible to the site management and will
    comply with the FAIR data management principles

### Issue 12

Date: July 11th 2022

1.  The summary for policy makers of the sustainable use assessment
    [approved by the IPBES
    plenary](https://ipbes.net/media_release/Sustainable_Use_Assessment_Published)
    was released on Friday. You can download it
    [here](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6425599)

2.  The summary for policy makers of the values assessment [approved by
    the IPBES
    Plenary](https://ipbes.net/media_release/Values_Assessment_Published)
    was released today. You can download it
    [here](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6522392)

3.  The Marine Stewardship Council's new [fisheries standard was
    approved](https://www.msc.org/media-centre/news-opinion/news/2022/06/24/msc-board-approves-new-fisheries-standard)
    following a four-year comprehensive review of the standard

4.  The FAO's State of the World's Fisheries and Aquaculture Report [was
    released](https://www.fao.org/publications/sofia/2022/en/) last
    month. A short summary can be found
    [here](https://www.msc.org/media-centre/news-opinion/news/2022/07/04/five-things-need-to-know-about-the-state-of-the-world's-fisheries-2022)

5.  [DataCite Commons](https://commons.datacite.org/) has a new
    function, "Repository Search" where you can search repositories to
    find one that best suits your needs explained
    [here](https://blog.datacite.org/how-to-find-a-repository-for-your-research-outputs/)

6.  MapTiler [produced a detailed hillshading
    Plugin](https://www.maptiler.com/news/2022/06/detailed-hillshading-anywhere-in-the-world/)
    for the latest version of QGIS, that presents hillshading anywhere
    on earth

7.  The [Sustainble Development Goals Report for
    2022](https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/report/2022/) was released last
    week

8.  OpenAIRE and the DARIAH ERIC announced the strengthening of their
    collaboration to ensure scholarly content types that are important
    for the arts and humanities communities (e.g. audiovisual data,
    encoded documents, etc) become visible in the biggest publicly owned
    scholarly discover system. More info
    [here](https://www.openaire.eu/dariah-eu-and-openaire-strengthening-our-collaboration)

### Issue 11

Date: June 13th 2022

1.  A series of educational resources for research data management are
    now available on [the website of the FAIR office
    Austria](https://fair-office.at/lernen-sie-mehr/?lang=en) announced
    [here](https://www.go-fair.org/2022/06/09/open-training-material-collection-on-rdm-topics-online/)

2.  Global Fishing Watch is using satellite radar and machine learning
    to reveal undetected dark fleets that do not broadcast their
    location explained
    [here](https://globalfishingwatch.org/press-release/technology-highlights-hidden-vessels/)

3.  NASA has started a new mission, "Transform to Open Science (TOPS)."
    [TOPS](https://science.nasa.gov/open-science/transform-to-open-science)
    aims to accelerate the engagement of the scientific community in
    open science practices

4.  A mobile app, [Fin Finder, was just
    released](https://cites.org/eng/news/ai-helps-fight-illegal-trade-shark-ray-fins)
    that uses AI to help customs officers in Asia identify illegally
    traded species of sharks and rays

5.  GBIF [has started a Data Use
    Club](https://www.gbif.org/news/6oAwMjseEj65vjiUmGBeYD/join-the-gbif-data-use-club)
    which provides quarterly training seminars and webinars about data
    use. It is envisioned as an open forum where a global community of
    biodiversity data users can share knowledge, access technical
    support and develop data skills

6.  The [2022 Sustainable Development
    Report](https://dashboards.sdgindex.org/) was published

7.  The [UNdata
    portal](https://unstats.un.org/home/undatamodernization/) will be
    modernized and anyone can participate in [this
    survey](https://forms.office.com/r/wLFsiwyNPr) to provide feedback

### Issue 10

Date: May 30th 2022

1.  The alliance for biodiversity knowledge will have an [opening
    webinar](https://www.allianceforbio.org/event-details/consultation-on-primary-biodiversity-data-and-the-post-2020-global-biodiversity-framework)
    on 21 July to kick off a two-week moderated consolation announced
    [here](https://www.gbif.org/news/1SjsruPFix90JJLYOadimQ/july-consultation-to-explore-the-role-of-biodiversity-data-in-the-post-2020-framework).
    This consultation will focus on improving data models and standards
    for improved usability, addressing spatial, temporal, and taxonomic
    biases in primary biodiversity data, and increasing transparency for
    indicator development

2.  UNEP-WCMC has launched a [new online
    platform](https://naturecommitments.org/) to raise awareness and
    inspire action by non-governmental organizations, local communities,
    and business to protect, sustainably manage, and restore land and
    water announced
    [here](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/new-online-platform-showcases-civil-society-local-authority-and-business-pledges-for-nature)

3.  This is the last week to [submit a
    review](https://gcos.wmo.int/en/news/public-review-new-global-climate-observing-system-gcos-2022-implementation-plan)
    of the Global Climate Observing System (GCOS) Implementation Plan
    which intends to guide the development and improvement of the global
    climate system

4.  [FAO has
    released](https://www.fao.org/newsroom/detail/fao-unveils-new-public-tool-based-on-agricultural-census-data/en)
    a new domain, "[Structural Data from Agricultural
    Censuses](https://www.fao.org/faostat/en/#data/WCAD)" which presents
    national reports that track how large farms are, who works on them
    and who owns them

5.  [REV Ocean has signed](https://www.revocean.org/ocean-principles/)
    the [Sustainable Ocean
    Principles](https://unglobalcompact.org/take-action/ocean) of the
    United Nationals Global Compact, which is a framework for
    responsible business practices in the Ocean across sectors and
    geographies

6.  GBIF has an open call for its network members and data publishers to
    apply for hosted data portals building on a pilot phase conducted
    in 2021. More information is available
    [here](https://www.gbif.org/news/5D3ijLXMbpiZDBj0y0z1J/gbif-launches-hosted-portal-service)

7.  GBIF produced another short animated video on [data sharing from the
    private
    sector](https://www.gbif.org/composition/4AiiddbcjhjkW6Va4vl7ii/data-sharing-from-the-private-sector)

### Issue 9

Date: May 16th 2022

1.  Global forest watch [published
    statistics](https://www.globalforestwatch.org/blog/data-and-research/global-tree-cover-loss-data-2021/)
    for forest loss in 2021 and [an additional
    article](https://www.globalforestwatch.org/blog/data-and-research/2021-tree-cover-loss-data-explained/)
    explaining the new data

2.  UNESCO will create an online geographic information system to better
    protect World Heritage properties announced
    [here](http://whc.unesco.org/en/news/2433)

3.  [Plazi
    announced](http://plazi.org/posts/2022/05/arcadia-fund-supports-plazi/)
    it will further develop its Biodiversity Literature Repository
    established in collaboration with Zenodo with a sizeable grant from
    the Arcadia Fund

4.  Open-AIRE and the European Marine Biological Resource Center (EMBRC)
    are [collaborating to develop a
    dashboard](https://www.openaire.eu/embrc-openaire-collaborating-on-open-science)
    for EMBRC research outputs, including information tracking EMBRC's
    contributions to Open Science

5.  Aurora and OPENAIRE are collaborating to map research output to the
    sustainable development goals, including text classification
    services that enables everyone to map academic texts in multiple
    languages to the sustainable development goals. Find out more
    [here](https://www.openaire.eu/aurora-and-openaire-collaboration)

6.  The Copernicus satellite Sentinel-6A has now taken over as the
    reference for sea surface height measurements, providing the world's
    most precise data on sea level. More information
    [here](https://marine.copernicus.eu/news/sentinel-6a-satellite-sea-level-wave-data)

7.  Copernicus Marine Service hosted a marine data hackathon named
    OceanChallenge4Africa in the beginning of April to promote a
    sustainable ocean. The innovative winners are announced
    [here](https://marine.copernicus.eu/news/throwback-oceanchallenge4africa-marine-data-hackathon)

8.  UNEP-WCMC in collaboration with UNDP and UNEP FI (finance
    initiative) released a [new
    report](https://www.unepfi.org/publications/are-you-ready-for-nature-related-disclosure/)
    investigating if business are ready for nature-related financial
    disclosures. More information is available
    [here](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/how-keen-and-ready-is-business-for-nature-related-financial-disclosure)

9.  GBIF produced another short animated video on [GBIF and
    conservation](https://www.gbif.org/conservation)

### Issue 8

Date: April 25th 2022

1.  GO-FAIR posted [a short recap of their
    webinar](https://www.go-fair.org/2022/04/13/webinar-fair-for-sensitive-data-a-short-recap/),
    "FAIR for Sensitive Data": A Short Recap, which includes links to
    the presentations and slides

2.  Force11 has developed detailed recommendations for developing ethics
    standards and best practices for data publications announced
    [here](https://force11.org/post/announcing-new-research-data-publishing-ethics-resources-policy-templates-for-repos-publishers/).
    The working group also developed two policy templates for use by
    data repositories and publishers

3.  UNESCO launched an emergency plan to boost 19 World Heritage listed
    reef's resilience and is partnering with the UN-led Global Fund for
    Coral Reefs to set up investment for these strategies announced
    [here](http://whc.unesco.org/en/news/2428). Read more about it
    [here](https://www.oceandecade.org/news/unesco-makes-commitment-to-foster-science-for-sustainable-ocean-management-in-the-pacific/)
    on the ocean decade website

4.  Ocean Decade [launched a new
    call](https://www.oceandecade.org/news/ocean-decade-launches-new-call-for-decade-actions-no-03-2022/)
    for decade actions this month

5.  The Global Climate Observing System (GCOS) [is holding a public
    review](https://gcos.wmo.int/en/news/public-review-new-global-climate-observing-system-gcos-2022-implementation-plan)
    of their new GCOS Implementation Plan which intends to guide the
    development and improvement of the global climate system. Register
    for the review
    [here](https://apps.ipcc.ch/comments/gcos/fod/register.php)

6.  OpenAIRE has
    [announced](https://www.openaire.eu/openaire-embraces-posi-principles)
    their commitment to work to systematically align with all
    [Principles of Scholarly
    Infrastructure](https://openscholarlyinfrastructure.org/) criteria
    and ensure their scholarly infrastructure remains open for all

7.  The recording of the GBIF community webinar on diversifying the GBIF
    data model specifically focused on the capabilities of the Darwin
    Core can be found
    [here](https://www.gbif.org/composition/HjlTr705BctcnaZkcjRJq/data-model)

8.  GBIF produced another short animated video on [GBIF and climate
    change](https://www.gbif.org/climate)

### Issue 7

Date: April 11th 2022

1.  UNEP-WCMC has
    [announced](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/for-nature-and-people-unep-wcmc-unveils-new-strategy-for-2022-25)
    its new strategy for 2022-2025 focused on "Nature and People" in
    four priority impact areas. The full strategy can be found
    [here](https://production-wordpress.unep-wcmc.org/content/uploads/2022/04/UNEP-WCMC_Strategy_2022-25online.pdf)

2.  The UNEP Climate Finance Unit and the UNEP-WCMC launched the [Land
    Use Impact Hub](https://landuseimpacthub.com/en) and its [Positive
    Impact Indicators Directory](https://landuseimpacthub.com/en/kpis)
    announced
    [here](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/en/news/unep-launches-new-sustainable-land-use-finance-impact-directory)
    a few days ago to help track the environmental and social impacts of
    investments in land-use

3.  Global Fishing Watch has [produced a new
    technique](https://globalfishingwatch.org/data/ais-viirs-reveals-dark-fleet/)
    to reveal fishing vessels that are not broadcasting their positions
    through AIS, by using nighttime satellite imagery

4.  Tomorrow, GBIF will have a community webinar on diversifying the
    GBIF data model specifically discussing possibilities to extend
    capabilities of the Darwin Core. The agenda, description, and
    registration can be found
    [here](https://www.gbif.org/event/33MQ8ZI9xuC98AekewiMr8/gbif-community-webinar-diversifying-the-gbif-data-model)

5.  The European Commission, partnering with other organizations,
    [announced](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_1977)
    the start of the Destination initiative to help tackle climate
    change and build a new digital twin of Earth

6.  The Society for Ecological Restoration and Climate Focus co-led the
    development of a sector-wide [Restoration Project Information
    Sharing
    Framework](https://cdn.ymaws.com/www.ser.org/resource/resmgr/publications/restoration-project-informat.pdf)
    announced
    [here](https://www.es-partnership.org/restoration-project-information-sharing-framework/)
    designed to support a coordinated global tracking of trends in
    ecosystem restoration

7.  If you have five minutes, GBIF published two short animated videos
    on [DNA derived data](https://www.gbif.org/dna) and [One
    Health's](https://www.gbif.org/health) intersections with the
    biodiversity data GBIF shares

### Issue 6

Date: March 22nd 2022

1.  Global Forest Watch developed [an integrated layer of
    deforestation](https://www.globalforestwatch.org/blog/data-and-research/integrated-deforestation-alerts/),
    combining data from their three different deforestation alert layers

2.  The [local biodiversity outlooks
    website](https://localbiodiversityoutlooks.net/) was updated and now
    includes [an interactive
    map](https://localbiodiversityoutlooks.net/case-studies/interactive-map/)
    of case studies for exploration

3.  The [DMPTool website](https://dmptool.org/) was updated with an
    improved authentication process and new public plans page to enable
    easy access to sample data management plans. More information on
    what has changed can be found
    [here](https://coffeehouse.dataone.org/2022/03/10/things-to-know-about-the-updated-dmptool-website/)

4.  The World Bank Group redesigned its [Gender Data
    Portal](https://genderdata.worldbank.org/) announced in [this
    article](https://blogs.worldbank.org/opendata/how-data-can-accelerate-equality).
    The portal now offers more than 900 gender indicators spanning raw
    data to synthesized data stories and information on data
    availability

5.  [CITES recently
    launched](https://cites.org/eng/new_wildlife_data_visualisation_platform_reveals_trends_international_trade_endangered_species_09032022)
    a new, interactive tool for visualizing data and trends in the
    international trade in endangered species available
    [here](https://tradeview.cites.org/)

6.  UNESCO issued a [new summary for policymakers for effective
    management for multiple ocean
    stressors](http://dx.doi.org/10.25607/OBP-1724) announced
    [here](https://www.oceandecade.org/news/unesco-issues-new-scientific-summary-for-policymakers-for-effective-management-of-multiple-ocean-stressors/)

### Issue 5

Date: March 7th 2022

1.  The International Associated for Ecology is hosting [a conference in
    Geneva](https://intecol2021.org/) this summer. There will be a
    thematic session on "sharing ecological data: FAIR and CARE
    principles" organized by Rainer and Aidin. The call for abstracts is
    open until 31 March 2022

2.  The Summary for Policymakers of the [IPCC Working Group II
    report](https://www.ipcc.ch/report/sixth-assessment-report-working-group-ii/),
    *Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability* was
    approved on 27 February 2022, announced
    [here](https://www.ipcc.ch/2022/02/28/pr-wgii-ar6/)

3.  The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund collaborated to
    use AIS data and machine learning and spatial data processing
    techniques to produce new, open-access datasets on [high-frequency
    seaborne trade estimates](https://comtrade.un.org/data/ais) and
    [global shipping traffic
    density](https://datacatalog.worldbank.org/search/dataset/0037580/Global-Shipping-Traffic-Density)
    described on [this
    blog](https://blogs.worldbank.org/opendata/using-marine-spatial-data-inform-development-work-and-public-policies)

4.  CODATA and RDA are working together [through the Data Together
    partnership](https://www.go-fair.org/2021/03/29/data-together-fostering-cooperation-among-open-science-platforms/)
    to develop open research infrastructures including CODATA's Global
    Open Science Cloud and RDA's Global Open Research Commons

5.  ARSET is hosting a [training on using the UN Biodiversity
    Lab](https://appliedsciences.nasa.gov/join-mission/training/english/arset-using-un-biodiversity-lab-monitor-pulse-planet),
    split into three lectures and two advanced labs starting on 14 April
    2022

6.  [Here](https://www.oceandecade.org/news/international-ocean-data-conference-2022-concludes-with-new-commitments-on-achieving-a-global-ocean-digital-ecosystem/)
    are the key takeaways from the International Ocean Data Conference
    2022 in Poland last month. One highlight is that the community
    recognized the need for the wider application of FAIR and CARE
    principles

7.  There's three days left to contribute your inputs on the themes of
    the interactive dialogues for the UN 2023 Water Conference. More
    information can be found
    [here](https://sdgs.un.org/basic-page/united-nations-2023-water-conference-global-online-stakeholder-consultation-theme)

### Issue 4

Date: February 22nd 2022

1.  [OpenAIRE](https://www.openaire.eu/new-openaire-training-platform-announcment)
    will soon unveil a new free learning platform which will cover
    topics of open science and best practices for research data
    management in a variety of languages

2.  DataCite will have a spring seminar focused on steps that can be
    taken to encourage diverse research communities toward open data
    with a first webinar titled "FORAGE: the hunt for existing data
    citations." More information can be found
    [here](https://blog.datacite.org/datacite_mdc_webinar_series/)

3.  The world bank
    [announced](https://blogs.worldbank.org/opendata/new-home-world-banks-global-poverty-and-inequality-data)
    the launch of the beta version of its new [Poverty and Inequality
    Platform](https://blogs.worldbank.org/opendata/new-home-world-banks-global-poverty-and-inequality-data),
    an online analysis tool that provides information on poverty
    estimates at a variety of scales

4.  GBIF will have a [community webinar on 2
    March](https://www.gbif.org/event/iUCyfB4B3Kd9BpsDPslwX/gbif-community-webinar-introducing-the-gbif-data-use-club)
    focused on introducing the GBIF Data Use Club which will highlight
    research, tools, and techniques for using open data on biodiversity

5.  If you are interested in reading something different, the world
    economic forum published an article about the [3 skills you need to
    thrive in a post-pandemic
    world](https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/02/futures-literary-skills-post-pandemic/)

### Issue 3

Date: February 7th 2022

1.  An improved method for measuring rural poverty has been developed
    with Oxford University announced
    [here](https://www.fao.org/newsroom/detail/fao-rural-poverty-RMPI/en)
    called the Rural Multidimensional Poverty Index described in [this
    report](https://www.fao.org/documents/card/en/c/cb8269en)

2.  [A training](https://www.sparkblue.org/unbiodiversitylab) will be
    held on 9 February 2022 on using the UN Biodiversity Lab 2.0
    co-hosted by UNDP and UNEP

3.  Stakeholders (including you) have been
    [invited](https://sdgs.un.org/news/2022-un-ocean-conference-global-online-stakeholder-consultation-inputs-concept-paper)
    to contribute inputs by 21 February to the concept papers of the
    eight interactive dialogues of the 2022 UN Ocean Conference that
    will occur in Portugal this summer

4.  All Copernicus Marine data now have digital object identifiers
    (DOIs) announced
    [here](https://marine.copernicus.eu/news/digital-object-identifier-copernicus-marine-data)

5.  Global Fishing Watch has [released the names of the five
    winners](https://globalfishingwatch.org/press-release/xview3-winners-announced/)
    of their competition to find the best open-source algorithm to
    detect illegally fishing dark vessels. The prize of \$100,000 will
    only be released once they publish their solutions as open source
    code

6.  Map Tiler [released a short
    description](https://www.maptiler.com/news/2022/01/making-global-satellite-imagery-cloud-free/)
    of how they created their high resolution cloudless map of the world

7.  An interesting
    [article](https://www.go-fair.org/2022/02/04/reproducibility-in-ai-and-what-computing-professionals-should-know-for-supporting-researchers/)
    that discusses reproducibility in artificial intelligence,
    specifically how differences in computing environments can impact
    reproducibility

### Issue 2

Date: January 25th 2022

1.  The GOFAIR BiodiFAIRse [will be working on a case
    study](https://www.go-fair.org/2022/01/12/biodifairse-establishes-new-concept-to-better-scale-workflows/)
    which will investigate how the global open science cloud could be
    used to create a complete "GEO BON Biodiversity change detection and
    attribution cycle" by using FAIR tools

2.  The World Economic Forum led a collaboration which published a [new
    report](https://www.weforum.org/reports/biodivercities-by-2030-transforming-cities-relationship-with-nature)
    named "BiodiverCities by 2030: Transforming cities' relationship
    with Nature," which argues for investment in nature-based solutions
    in cities globally

3.  Maptiler has produced a single raster image of the entire world at
    \~10m/pixel [announced
    here](https://www.maptiler.com/news/2022/01/free-access-to-10m-global-satellite-map/)
    that can be used for your own projects. The dataset can be
    downloaded
    [here](https://data.maptiler.com/downloads/dataset/satellite-2021/?_gl=1*3s67qx*_ga*NjU4NTc3MzMxLjE2NDE4MDk3Mzk.*_ga_K4SXYBF4HT*MTY0MzEyNzc5OC4yLjEuMTY0MzEyNzkyMi42MA..&_ga=2.227210078.2111086492.1643118863-658577331.1641809739#1.39/-62.6/-97.5)

4.  GBIF has a new feature where one can search and filter species
    occurrence records based on their global extinction risk as
    classified by the ICUN Red List of Threatened Species, announced
    [here](https://www.gbif.org/news/3vu7HxLgHTqKtSF69oNqNr/new-feature-enables-search-of-occurrence-data-by-global-iucn-red-list-category)

5.  OpenAIRE provides a service ([Open science
    observatory](https://osobservatory.openaire.eu/home)) to understand
    the European open research landscape and track trends for open
    access to a variety of resources

6.  Planet (formerly PlanetLabs) has deployed 44 new satellites on a
    successful launch on SpaceX Falcon 9 Rocket reported
    [here](https://www.planet.com/pulse/44-superdove-satellites-successfully-launch-on-spacex-falcon-9-rocket/)

7.  UNESCO has updated their website available
    [here](http://whc.unesco.org/)

### Issue 1

Date: January 10th 2022

1.  The European Commission adopted new rules on open source software
    that will enable its software solutions to be publicly accessible in
    one place where there are benefits for citizens, companies or public
    services. More information can be found
    [here](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_21_6649)

2.  The [Urban Nature Atlas](https://una.city/) is a knowledgebase
    showcasing nature-based solutions in cities worldwide. The project
    originally began in 2017 with a focus on European cities, but has
    since expanded to include case studies from around the globe

3.  The Global Wetland Outlook: Special Edition was [published by
    Ramsar](https://www.ramsar.org/news/the-global-wetland-outlook-special-edition-2021-highlights-the-importance-of-wetland-services)
    late last year. The report is an update to the first Global Wetland
    Outlook in 2018 and is [available to
    download](https://www.global-wetland-outlook.ramsar.org/) in
    English, Spanish, or French

4.  FAO released a new [SDG indicators domain in
    FAOSTAT](https://www.fao.org/faostat/en/#data/SDGB) so one can
    easily download the available indicator data related to the SDGs
    under FAO custodianship, announced
    [here](https://www.fao.org/food-agriculture-statistics/resources/resources-detail/en/c/1460968/)

5.  The Global Ocean Health Index has turned 10 and has a new website,
    announced [here](https://oceanhealthindex.org/news/2021-scores/)
    accompanied with information and trends for 2011-2021.

6.  EarthCube, a community dedicated to the advancement of geoscience
    research, has produced a series of FAIR
    [training](https://www.earthcube.org/fair-training-materials) and
    [implementation](https://www.earthcube.org/implementing-fair)
    materials that are informative and helpful

7.  UNEP published its' [highlights of the
    year](https://www.unep-wcmc.org/news/highlights-of-year--unep-wcmcs-key-contributions-to-global-ambitions-on-nature-in-2021).
    Take a look for a reminder of some key publications and initiatives

8.  The [Global Monitoring for Environmental Security and Africa
    program](https://www.eu4oceanobs.eu/gmes-and-africa/) completed its
    first phase late last year, in which data from Copernicus Marine
    Service are being used to support ecosystem monitoring and maritime
    safety described
    [here](https://marine.copernicus.eu/news/copernicus-data-supports-ecosystem-monitoring-and-maritime-safety-africa)
